This is a small C library for doing some symbolic polynomial computations. There are some quirks that might prevent portability but ultimately, this library is for me! 
Must use **clang** to compile because we need access to ```unsigned _BitInt(512)```.

Here is a breakdown of the structure. The naive_gb contains the first pass at these ideas where we implement everything with "complex" coefficients (i.e. we use ```complex.h```). After this, we switched to a macro-based template design to try to accommodate many coefficient-rings without having to copy everything all the time. 

Everything is based on ```rawmonomial.h``` which encodes a monomial as a vector. This vector is bit-packed in a ```unsigned _BitInt(512)``` which allows for fast computations and hopefully can easily be "sped up" by SIMD computations with things like AVX-512. The structure of how the packing is as follows: there must be a ```NUM_VARS``` declared and that is used to calculate how many "buckets" there are in the ```unsigned _BitInt(512)```. Thus, the "maximum degree" will change based on the number of variables (this is only for "internal computations", a user can only enter, at most, a 64-bit unsigned integer as a variable but possibly less if there are many variables). Further, there is always a variable-order, and the least significant bits of the ```unsigned _BitInt(512)``` correspond with the _smallest_ variable, while larger bits correspond to larger variables. The reason for this choice is that we assume that we are working on a little endian CPU and the default monomial ordering is **grevlex**, thus, when doing size-comparisons, in the case of a total-degree tie, we start with the smallest variables, and hence the "first" elements in memory. Grevlex is currently the only supported monomial ordering, but everything is set up for it to be relatively painless to add support for others.

Next, is the file ```poly_template.h``` which implements polynomials. We chose our implementation as a struct-of-arrays instead of the more mathematically intuitive, array-of-stucts. In particular, a polynomial is a struct containing an array of monomials, an array of coefficients, a size, and a capacity. The reason for this is that we wanted to be able to load a whole array of monomials into cache and operate on them quickly, as the main function of all of this is the computation of Groebner bases and polynomial division (by ideals), which primarily is comparing, operating on, and sorting, monomials. We always assume that the struct of monomials is ordered such that the 0-th element is the leading monomial. 

We then implement ```poly_div_template.h``` which implements polynomial division by an ideal. That is to say, given $p$ and $f_1,\ldots,f_n$ we construct $q_1,\ldots, q_n$ and $r$ such that the relation $p=f_1q_1 + \ldots + f_nq_n +r$ holds and no monomial in $r$ is divisible by the leading monomial of any $f_i$. This keeps the term-order as described above of all polynomials.

Lastly, we implement (reduced) Groebner bases in ```groebner_template.h``` which implements and heavily uses S-pair computations. That is, we take an array of polynomials and modify it in place, producing a reduced Groebner basis as a result. That is to say, the resulting array of polynomials has the following properties:
1. the monomial ideal generated by leading monomials of the resulting set equals the monomial ideal generated by initial monomials of _all_ algebraic (i.e. polynomial) combinations of the initial polynomials;
2. the leading monomial of any element in the resulting array is not divisible by the leading monomial of any other; and
3. the leading coefficients of the resulting array are all 1.

There are two methods for the main Groebner basis computation, the first is the standard "serial" computation; the next, relies on OpenMP, imported from ```omp.h```, which provides parallel computation of S-pairs and polynomial division. In initial tests, this has provided massive speedups. The main method for computing Groebner bases accepts a flag which indicates if the computation should be done serially or in parallel. 

This is the core of the library. 

The other files, ```poly_rational.h``` and ```poly_complex.h``` are vehicles for the above, where, for example, ```poly_rational.h``` defines the relevant structures for rational number computation, and maps the functions to the various template-functions in the core. Thus, if one wants to actually _use_ the library, one should simply include, e.g. ```poly_rational.h``` in the file, and that will, in turn, include all the other necessary things, using macro-magic to replace all the templates with the methods for rational numbers. 

I have included a file ```test_3_vars.c``` which contains some tests. One can compile this, with level 2 optimization, 
```bash
clang -O2 test_3_vars.c -o test -lomp -lm
```
The resulting binary has the following features: it generates random polynomials with rational and complex coefficients and computes a bunch of Groebner bases, using Buchberger's criterion to check accuracy. By default, it selects the parallel option, and computes examples with rational polynomials up to degree 20 and computes examples with complex polynomials up to degree 4. The reason for this is that complex polynomials quickly become unstable in even moderately high degrees, and so the complex tests may even fail for degree 4 as is (sometimes they fail sometimes they pass!). The binary also accepts a parameter, which, if it's '0', will run the test using the serial-implementation. However, this is not recommended as doing this causes the computations with rational polynomials at about degree 5 and up to become _extremely slow_. So, if one does want to run serially, they should go into ```test_3_vars.c``` and change ```MAX_TEST_DEG_RAT``` to be 4 or 5 (even 5 might take a while!) so running in parallel is recommended.  

Two last notes: first, if one edits with clangd enabled, the header files all show many errors; this is not an indication of bugs, but simply due to the "variable" macros being undefined within the individual files (as one defines them from within other files!). Second, there are a few compiler warnings generated by clang; do not panic, but it probably does mean we need to ensure that we have C23.


